Now that we added this new image picker package in the last lecture,
let's now make sure we can pick an image.
We got this pick image component which we include in the share place screen, there in our jsx code,
we've pick image and I want this to work similarly to pick location, that we can pick an image in there
and then we just get notified here through an event
if an image was chosen.
So let's work in pickimage.js
therefore, here we have a class based component too which makes sense because we're also going to manage
some internal state in here
and the state I want to manage in here clearly is of course the image we picked, so I'll name this picked image.
Now picked image by default will be null,
so that's what we start with,
then we here have our image which we assign a source of image placeholder, well the times of that
are over I'm going to remove it and I'm going to change this to this state picked image. Now let's save
this and see what this looks like.
If we reload the iOS app and we log in there,
now we get this empty container which makes sense because we got no image yet.
Now my goal is to make the pick image button do something, should no longer throw this alert,
instead it should trigger this image picker package
we imported or we added and do something with it.
Now you can of course read more about this package on the official documentation,
it exposes one crucial method to us in the end.
So I will import a picture like this, it's the default export from react native image picker, like that
and then I'll add a new method here in pick image,
I'll name it
pick image handler, here I want to start this whole process,
no arguments are required
here. The goal now is to use the image picker object here and pick an image with it, so we can use image
picture here and there we get one useful method, show image picker which will just present this action
alert and handle all the rest.
To this method, we pass two arguments,
the first is object where we configure this, where we can mostly set the title,
so pick an image, the title which will be shown on this action menu which comes up.
The second argument then is the response,
so here we get the response and we can then handle it in this arrow function body.
Now the response can have various forms, it can of course always fail or maybe the user started to
pick an image, like he opened the camera but then canceled,
so we need to check all these cases.
So here we have response
did cancel,
these are all properties exposed by the response object we get,
so this is all managed by the image picker library.
There I will log user cancelled and depending on your app, you of course might want to do something
else here,
here it doesn't really matter to me because I just won't set
the picked image, it will still be null so we won't have an issue here
but if this is an important event to you, this is how you could check it. An alternative, so a different
case we could check for
is that we got an error,
so the error property could also exist. If it exists,
well we got an error during picking this,
this could be for example if you don't give the right permissions or anything like that
and then I want to print that error here so that we can get deeper insights
or else if we get no error and we did not cancel, we are successful.
In this case we will get a URL or some path to the image, if the user took an image, it will be stored in
some temporary path or in the camera roll and we will get a path to that and if we chose one from the
image library, we will get a path to that.
So here what I will do is I will call this set state and set picked image equal and now not to the
path but to an object where I have a URI property set equal to the path.
Why?
Because of the way
image source works here.
Remember that it needs an object which has an URI property,
that's just what I am setting up here,
the URI
we get is then indeed
the URI of the image, like that. If we now save this, the image should update as soon as the user did
indeed pick one.
So just make sure that you now also hook up this button down there,
so replace this dummy function with this pick image handler, save the file, save all files and go back
to the application, reload the application, let's go to share place,
let's now click pick image and we should see this action menu with your title.
Now you cannot take a photo on the iOS simulator,
this will only work on real devices but you can choose one from the library.
Now you're asked if you want to give permission, so click yes and now simply pick one of these images and
you see it up there.
Now we won't use that image though right now, we use it here but we don't pass it on.
So this is what we'll do in the next lecture.